Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics play a major role in our everyday life. Talking on a telephone, watching TV, driving in a car under a bridge -- STEM is part of everything we do! Being a part of developing and utilizing these tools is exciting and allows you to truly make a positive difference in the world.  

The world of STEM is constantly changing breakthroughs are happening right this minute. With this many transformations occurring, the work could never be dull. 

STEM offers the chance to find a career choice in something that you will enjoy doing every day of your life. 

As STEM is such a broad field, there is the freedom of many specializations within each discipline. The possibilities are endless when it comes to the potential careers held by someone in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. It is impossible to predict what will happen next; therefore, no two days will be exactly the same. Variety is the spice of life, and STEM allows you to choose your own adventure. 

If you enjoy doing puzzles, figuring out how an object works, understanding the wonders of the human body, or creating new applications for world use, then a major in STEM may be just the right major for you. 

In the ever-changing world of STEM, no two days will be exactly the same. Being able to adapt to a new situation is part of the challenge that many students enjoy. 

Another hurdle many students benefit from is having an idea and trying to make it a reality. You will be encouraged to think "outside the box." Critical thinking and reasoning skills come into play during everyday life, as does the ability to work individually and collaboratively. Proficiency in these skills, among many others, is learned from a STEM major.

"I feel sorry for the person who can't get genuinely excited about his/her work. Not only will he/she never be satisfied, but he/she will never achieve anything worthwhile" Walter Chrysler. 

Even if the major subject does not come naturally to you, but you love learning about it, then it may still be the perfect major for you in the long run because you will always be excited about it. 

If you want to see how your desired profession measures up in job satisfaction, check out JobsRated.com to see the Top 200 most satisfying jobs based on stress, work environments, physical demands, income, and outlook. 15 of the top 20 are from a branch of STEM, with the top five being actuary, software engineer, computer systems analyst, biologist, and historian.

Knowledge in STEM can help you in everyday life in many different ways, from which cell phone to purchase to designing a website. Also, majoring in a STEM field can actually give you a leg up on the college experience. Studying science, technology, engineering, or math will not be the simplest task you have ever done, but it will teach you a large set of skills right away that might take other majors years to master: time management, organization, motivation, effective note-taking, and proper report writing. 

STEM careers encompass a lot of the fastest growing occupations, along with many of the highest paying occupations. 

Girls in the U.S. have been outperforming boys in math and science classes for some time.

In the United States, men comprise about 75% of all STEM majors. We need far more people to go into these majors; if half our citizens shy away from these majors, we will never have as much talent as we need.

Step outside your comfort zone!  It will take you great places.
